=Team Meetings (agenda and minutes): =
*(8/Jan, Attendees: All)* # Our group members get introduced and formulate a general concept of what it is we want to do. After a quick brainstorming session two candidate ideas are selected but we delay the final decision for meeting 2. Action All: Think about and research the current game ideas and other game ideas and pick your favorite.
(11/Jan, Attendees: All) We decide unanimously to go with the asteroid concept due to its simpler design that we feel is more cost effective under our time constraints. We formulate a general storyboard, and a group page is created at https://code.google.com/p/mindblaster/.  Action All: Brainstorm futher ideas for asteroid game and write ideas for the project plan layout and sections.
(13/Jan, Attendees: All) Inspired by class discussion we decide to port the page to Google Code, however, we fail to make a unanimous decision as to our group name. Roles are distributed among group members. It is decided that Yaniv will manage the project and the group web page. Tony and Le Fang are assigned to create the website supporting our application, Steven fearlessly volunteers to take team minutes and we will all contribute to the application coding process.  At present, we decide that each member is responsible for documenting their assigned process. At the end of the meeting, team spirits are high, but we have yet to choose a group name. We schedule a next meeting and assign roles for formulating the project plan. On our next meeting we should have a first draft of the plan and hopefully a group name. In addition, we've decided that the website portion of the project is sufficiently defined and tasked Tony to search for a suitable host, free or otherwise, so that he may begin developing its design autonomously. Action John: Project Overview. Action Yaniv: Risk Analysis. Action Steve: Game Components. Action Le: Profiles and Game Security. Action Tony:  Gantt Chart
(15/Jan, Attendees: All, Steve came late due to conflicting tutorial) Project plan revised and we've set a color scheme for individiual revision. It's been decided that we need a consistent reference to our target audience as neither "users", "children", "students" seem very appropriate , "Players" has been selected. Finally, the day has come, we are group "Awesome" and a our application title is "MindBlaster". A possible schedule for another meeting is set for Saturday the 16th, in case we're not happy with the overnight online revision. Tony and Steven create the Gantt chart and we think ahead by dividing the code complexity into modular isolated sections each person can work on individually. Action All: Read and edit final submission. Action Tony: Send final printable Gantt Chart to Yaniv. Action Yaniv: Final Formatting and Submission